OOPs

Q. What is OOPs?
A. Object oriented programming organizes a program around its data, i.e. , objects and a set of well defined interfaces to that data. An object-oriented program can be characterized as data controlling access to code.

Q. What is an object?
A. An object is a physical entity that exists in memory. It can be a piece of data or it can be a set of operations or methods. The object is an instance of a class.

Q. What is a class?
A. A class is a template or blueprint that defines the variables and the methods common to all objects of a certain kind. It is a logical entity.

Q. What is the difference between a class and an object?
A. A class is a template or blueprint that defines the variables and the methods common to all objects of a certain kind. It is a logical entity. An object is a physical entity that exists in memory. It can be a piece of data or it can be a set of operations or methods. The object is an instance of a class.


Syntax of a class:

class class_name
{
    access_specifier:
        data members;
        member functions();
};

access_specifier: It defines the access type of the data members and member functions. It can be public, private or protected.

public: Data members and member functions declared as public can be accessed by other classes and functions too.

private: Data members and member functions declared as private can be accessed only by the member functions of the class.

protected: Data members and member functions declared as protected can be accessed by the member functions of the same class and by the member functions of the derived classes.

data members: These are the variables used by the class to store data. These variables can be of any data type.

member functions: These are the functions used to manipulate the data members of the class. These functions can be defined inside or outside the class.


Example of class and object:

Class -> Object
Car -> Maruti 800
Bike -> Spledor plus/passion pro
AC -> LG 1.5 ton dual inverter
TV -> Samsung 32 inch LED
Mobile -> Redmi note 7 pro
Laptop -> Dell inspiron 15 3000 series
Pen -> Saino Softek
Pencil -> Natraj
Book -> Physics part 1 by HC Verma
Chair -> Nilkamal

Task: Name of 50 objects and 50 classes